How website persed in browser?

When you open an HTML file on browser,there are several steps occur to render the content
of the webpage.

1.Parsing HTML:-First,browser parsing HTML document and build a Document Object Model
tree,which represent the structure of the document.

2.Applying CSS styles:-Once DOM is constructed,the browser applies CSS styles element
on each node.This process known as the rendering engine applying style to create the
render tree.

3.Layout:-After styles are applied,the browser calculate the layout of the elements and
determining their position and size on the page.This process result in a layout tree.

4.Painting:-The final step is painting,where the browser draws the pixel on the screen
based on the layout tree.This process involved rendering the content,background,borders
and other visual aspects.

Now,javascript comes into picture after these steps:-

5.Javascript Execution:-If there is JS code in the HTML file,it is executed.JS can mani
pulate DOM,making dynamic changes on the webpage.Example=>add or remove element etc.

6.Reflow and Repaint:-Changes made by JS may trigger reflow and repaint process,browser
will recalculate the layout and all and repaint or redraw the website.

This is simple six steps happens when I render the website,now we are focus on the 
first step,creating DOM.

So,now question is what is DOM(Document Object Model)?

DOM stands for document object model,that determine the structure of a document,as a
tree structure.

When the HTML parsed on the browser,browser create a document object model and add every
thing on that document object model.It's a tree structure that defines the structure
of the document.

Now,why we need document object model?

Actually,DOM allows programmer to change the struture of document,add styles and make
website dynamic and the main advantage of DOM is that we can traverse the whole
document easily.

Why DOM follows tree structure?

1.Tree has the efficient way to traverse document.

2.You can go every node by using root node.

That's the advantage to maintain a tree structure.
